Heaven Sent
DOCTOR : As you come into this world, something else is also born.
DOCTOR : You begin your life, and it begins a journey towards you. It moves slowly, but it never stops. Wherever you go, whatever path you take, it will follow. Never faster, never slower, always coming. You will run. It will walk. You will rest. It will not. One day, you will linger in the same place too long. You will sit too still or sleep too deep, and when, too late, you rise to go, you will notice a second shadow next to yours. Your life will then be over.
 chamber and its separate control console, a blackened hand reaches for a lever, squeezes the grip to release it, and pulls. The owner of the hand gasps and falls, cogs turn, and the hand turns to dust. Light fills the teleport chamber and the Doctor appears, coughing and gasping. The machinery slows and stops. He opens the curved perspex door of the teleport chamber and steps out, closing it behind him. He remembers the moment the Quantum Shade raven entered Clara's body, then scoops a handful of sand from the floor and lets it trickle though his fingers.)
DOCTOR: If you think because she is dead, I am weak, then you understand very little. If you were any part of killing her, and you're not afraid, then you understand nothing at all. So, for your own sake, understand this. I am the Doctor. I'm coming to find you, and I will never, ever stop.
DOCTOR: The equipment in that room is consistent with an augmented ultra long-range teleport. So, I'm not more than a single light year from where I was, and I'm in the same time zone.
DOCTOR: When the sun sets, I'll be able to establish an exact position by the stars. Then you'll have a choice. Come out, show yourself, or keep on hiding. Clara said I shouldn't take revenge. You should know, I don't always listen.
DOCTOR: Oh, what's this? Well, are you gardeners? I hate gardening! What sort of a person has a power complex about flowers? It's dictatorship for inadequates. Or to put it another way, it's dictatorship. Come on! Chop, chop! The Doctor will see you now! Show me what you've got! I just watched my best friend die in agony. My day can't get any worse. Let's see what we can do about yours!
DOCTOR: I know you. I've seen you before.
DOCTOR: I used to know a trick, back when I was young and telepathic. Clearly, you can't make an actual psychic link with a door, for one very obvious reason. They're notoriously cross. I mean, imagine life as a door. People keep pushing past you. All of that knocking, but it's never for you. And you get locked up every night, so if you're just a little bit nice.
DOCTOR: See, Clara? Still got it.
DOCTOR: But I. Er,  I can't actually see a way out of this  I've finally run out of corridor. There's a life summed up. Oh, now this is new. I'm scared. I just realised that I'm actually scared of dying.
DOCTOR: Something I said? What did I say?
DOCTOR: Why did you stop?
DOCTOR: Old. Very old. Possibly very, very old.
DOCTOR: When I was a very little boy, there was an old lady who died.  They covered her in veils, but it was a hot, sunny day, and the flies came. It gave me nightmares for years. So, who's been stealing my nightmares?
DOCTOR: What am I here for? You've known about me for a very long time, right?
DOCTOR: So, what is it? Is it a trap? Is it a prison? No! Is it a torture chamber? Am I right? Somebody really should know better. Anyone who can put all of this together and steal my bad dreams, they should know better.
DOCTOR: The secrets I have? No chance. No telling, not me.
DOCTOR; I told you I was scared of dying. And I wasn't lying either. Advantage, me!
DOCTOR: Because you won't see this coming!
DOCTOR: Sorry I'm late. Jumped out of a window. Certain death. Don't you want to know how I survived? Go on. Ask me! No, of course I had to jump! The first rule of being interrogated is that you are the only irreplaceable person in the torture chamber. The room is yours, so work it. If they're going to threaten you with death, show them who's boss. Die faster. And you've seen me do that more often than most. Isn't that right, Clara? Rule one of dying, don't. Rule two, slow down.
DOCTOR: You've got the rest of your life. The faster you think, the slower it will pass. Concentrate. Assume you're going to survive. Always assume that. Imagine you've already survived. There's a storm room in your mind. Lock the door and think. This is my storm room. I always imagine that I'm back in my Tardis, showing off, telling you how I escaped, making you laugh. That's what I'm doing right now. I am falling, Clara. I'm dying. And I am going to explain to you how I survived. I can't wait to hear what I say. I'm nothing without an audience. One hope. Salt.
DOCTOR: Thought I smelled it earlier. When I broke the window, I was sure. Salty air. This castle is standing in the sea.
DOCTOR:  Diving into water from a great height is no guarantee of survival. I need to know exactly how far I'm going to fall, and how fast.
DOCTOR: Why do you think I threw the stool?  Fall time to impact  seven seconds.
DOCTOR : Because you won't see this coming!
DOCTOR: The wind resistance of the stool, the atmospheric density,  the strength of the local gravity.  Am I spoiling the magic? I work at this stuff, you know? Should hit the water in about
DOCTOR: Point zero two seconds. The chances of remaining conscious are
BLACKBOARD: Question 1. What is this place?
DOCTOR: Can't I just sleep?
BLACKBOARD: Question 2. What did you say that made the creature stop?
DOCTOR: Do I have to know everything?
BLACKBOARD: How are you going to
DOCTOR: Clara, I can't always
BLACKBOARD: Win?? 
DOCTOR: It keeps coming, Clara. Wherever I go, it follows. Why? Why does it do that?
BLACKBOARD: Wrong question.
DOCTOR: Always the teacher. What's the right question, then?
BLACKBOARD: Not why. What?
DOCTOR: It's following me. Wherever I go, it's tracking me. Slowly though. Scary lurching. Scary. These screens, everywhere. It's showing me exactly where it is all the time, how far it's got, how near. Because it's trying to scare me. Putting its breath on my neck. That's the point. That's what it's doing. This is theatre. It's all about fear. Working hypothesis. I'm in a fully automated haunted house. A mechanical maze.
DOCTOR: It's a killer puzzle box designed to scare me to death, and I'm trapped inside it.  Must be Christmas.
DOCTOR: Another spade? Someone wants me to dig. What do you think, Clara? Is someone trying to give me a hint? What would you do?
BLACKBOARD: Same as you.
DOCTOR: Yes. Yes, of course you would.
DOCTOR: Which, let's be honest, is what killed you. So, someone is trying to tell me that there's something important buried in this garden. That's almost the first thing they tried to tell me. Could be a trick. Could be one of my predecessors. Because I'm not the first prisoner here, am I! All those skulls! Wonder where they all went wrong. Building this height, creature that slow, so what? An hour.
DOCTOR: Physics of a triangle. You lose.
DOCTOR: So? It can set traps. That's okay. I'm good at traps.
DOCTOR: So, where are you off to? Only one way in and one way out. Well, seeing as you're going.
DOCTOR: No, no. That's not right.
DOCTOR: Well, that was another close one. Or it will have been, once I've been and gone and got myself out of it. So, how am I going to do that? Come on, teacher, ask me questions!
BLACKBOARD: Tell no lies.
DOCTOR : I'm actually scared of dying.
BLACKBOARD: Question 2. What did you say that made the creature stop?
DOCTOR: The truth, yes. But not any old truth, Clara. This whole place is designed to terrify me. I'm being interrogated. It's not just truth it wants. That's not enough. It's confession. I have to tell truths I've never told before. That's the only thing that stops it. You see, the problem is, Clara, there are truths that I can never tell. Not for anything. But I'm scared and I'm alone. Alone, and very, very scared.
DOCTOR: I confess.
DOCTOR: I didn't leave Gallifrey because I was bored! That was a lie! It's always been a lie!
DOCTOR: Not enough? You want more? I was scared! I ran because I was scared! Is that what you want me to say? Is that true enough for you?
DOCTOR : It's funny, the day you lose someone isn't the worst. At least you've got something to do. It's all the days they stay dead.
DOCTOR: Fifty seven minutes?
DOCTOR : This is how my world works, Clara. I tick off the seconds as they pass. My life is a countdown.
DOCTOR : If I draw the creature to one extreme of the castle, and I run to the other extreme, I can earn myself a maximum of eighty two minutes. Eighty two minutes to eat, sleep and work. My work is finding Room 12.  The castle wants me to. It's luring me.  The numbering is a bit confused,  as if the rooms are all jumbled up. Maybe they move around. I saw the whole castle move, when I made the creature stop.
DOCTOR : Every room, if I leave it long enough, reverts to its condition at the moment I arrive. It tidies up after itself.
DOCTOR : Automated room service.
DOCTOR : I think this whole place is inside a closed energy loop, constantly recycling. Or maybe I'm in Hell? That's okay. I'm not scared of Hell. It's just Heaven for bad people. But how long will I have to be here? Forever?
DOCTOR : It's always coming. Always closer. The countdown never stops. But the countdown to what?
DOCTOR : There are two events in everybody's life that nobody remembers. Two moments experienced by every living thing, yet no one remembers anything about them. Nobody remembers being born and nobody remembers dying.
DOCTOR : Is that why we always stare into the eye sockets of a skull?
DOCTOR : Because we're asking, what was it like? Does it hurt? Are you still scared?
DOCTOR: Bird? What's bird got to do with it? Are there birds here?
DOCTOR : There's something I'm missing, Clara, and I think it's something terrible.
DOCTOR: Hello? Hello, is there someone there? Hello!
DOCTOR : It's a trap, Clara. A lure and a trap.
DOCTOR: I'm following breadcrumbs laid out for me. This is somebody's game, and I can't stop playing. A game everybody else has lost. I know how to move that wall, Clara, so long as I don't run out of confessions. But what I really want to know is
DOCTOR: Who's been playing about with the stars? They're all in the wrong places, for this time zone, anyway. I know I didn't time travel to get here. I can feel time travel.
DOCTOR: If I didn't know better, I'd say I've travelled seven thousand years into the future. But I do know better. So who moved the stars?
DOCTOR: The Hybrid.
DOCTOR: Long before the Time War, the Time Lords knew it was coming, like a storm on the wind. There were many prophecies and stories, legends before the fact. One of them was about a creature called the Hybrid. Half Dalek, half Time Lord, the ultimate warrior. But whose side would it be on? Would it bring peace or destruction? Was it real, or a fantasy? I confess, I know the Hybrid is real. I know where it is, and what it is. I confess, I'm afraid.
DOCTOR: Of course. The last square on the board. What else would it be? The Tardis. One confession away.
DOCTOR: Azbantium. Four hundred times harder than diamond. Twenty feet thick. The way out.
DOCTOR: Bird?
DOCTOR:  That's when I remember! Always then. Always then. Always exactly then! I can't keep doing this, Clara! I can't! Why is it always me? Why is it never anybody else's turn?
BLACKBOARD: How are you going to win?? 
DOCTOR: Can't I just lose? Just this once?
DOCTOR; Easy. It would be easy. It would be so easy. Just tell them. Just tell them, whoever wants to know, all about the Hybrid.
DOCTOR: I can't keep doing this. I can't! I can't always do this! It's not fair! Clara, it's just not fair! Why can't I just lose?
BLACKBOARD: No!
DOCTOR: But I can remember, Clara.You don't understand, I can remember it all. Every time. And you'll still be gone. Whatever I do, you still won't be there.
CLARA : Doctor, you are not the only person who ever lost someone. It's the story of everybody. Get over it. Beat it. Break free. 
CLARA: Doctor, it's time. Get up, off your arse, and win!
DOCTOR; Hello again. No more confessions, sorry. But I will tell you the truth.
DOCTOR: The Hybrid is a very dangerous secret. A very, very dangerous secret and it needs to be kept!
DOCTOR: So I'm telling you nothing. Nothing at all. Instead, I'm going to do something far worse.  Argh! I'm going to get out of here, and find whoever put me here in the first place, and whatever they're trying to do, I'm going to stop it!  Argh!
DOCTOR: But it might take me a little while, so do you want me to tell you a story?  Argh! The Brothers Grimm, lovely fellas. They're on my darts team.  Argh! According to them, there's this emperor and he asks this shepherd's boy, how many seconds in eternity?
The Doctor's storm room slowly lights up.)
DOCTOR: People always get it wrong with Time Lords. We take forever to die. Even if we're too injured to regenerate, every cell in our bodies keeps trying. Dying properly can take days. That's why we like to die among our own kind. They know not to bury us early.
DOCTOR: I think, in my current condition, it'll take me about a day and a half to reach the top of the tower. I think. If I'm lucky, I have a day and a half.
DOCTOR: I have to do this, Clara. It's the only way. I have to be strong. I should have known from the very beginning. Of course. The portrait of you, the creature from my own nightmares. This place is my own bespoke torture chamber, intended for me only. And all those skulls in the water. How could there be other prisoners in my Hell? The answer, of course, is there never were any other prisoners. And the stars, they weren't in the wrong place, and I haven't time travelled.
DOCTOR: I've just been here a very, very long time. Every room resets. Remember I told you that? Every room reverts to its original condition. Logically, the teleporter should do the same. Teleporter. Fancy word. Just like 3D printers, really, except they break down living matter and information, and transmit it. All you have to do is add energy. The room has reset, returned to its original condition when I arrived. That means there's a copy of me still in the hard drive. Me, exactly as I was, when I first got here, seven thousand years ago. All I have to find is some energy.
DOCTOR: And all you need for energy is something to burn.
DOCTOR: If you think because she's dead, I am weak, then you understand very little. If you were any part of killing her and you're not afraid, then you understand nothing at all. So, for your own sake, understand this. I'm the Doctor. I'm coming to find you, and I will never, ever stop.
DOCTOR : Because you won't see this coming!
DOCTOR: If I didn't know better, I'd say I've travelled seven thousand years into the future.
DOCTOR: Aah! How many seconds in eternity?
DOCTOR : If I didn't know better, I'd say I've travelled twelve thousand years into the future.
DOCTOR : How many seconds in eternity? And the shepherd's boy Argh!
DOCTOR : Six hundred thousand years into the future.
DOCTOR : Argh! How many seconds in eternity? And the shepherd's boy says Argh!
DOCTOR : Twelve hundred thousand years into the future.
DOCTOR : Argh! And the shepherd's boy says Argh!
DOCTOR : Two million years into the future.
DOCTOR : And the shepherd's boy says
DOCTOR : Twenty million years into the future.
DOCTOR : Ow! And the shepherd's boy says, there's this mountain of pure diamond. It takes an hour to climb it, and an hour to go around it!
DOCTOR : 52 million years.
DOCTOR : Every hundred years, a little bird comes and sharpens its beak on the diamond mountain.
DOCTOR : Nearly a billion years.
DOCTOR : Argh! And when the entire mountain is chiselled away, the first second of eternity will have passed!
DOCTOR : Well over a billion years.
DOCTOR : Argh! You must think that's a hell of a long time,
DOCTOR : Two billion years.
DOCTOR : Personally, I think that's a hell of a
DOCTOR: Aaargh!
DOCTOR: Personally, I think that's a hell of a bird.
DOCTOR: Go to the city. Find somebody important. Tell them I'm back. Tell them, I know what they did, and I'm on my way. And if they ask you who I am, tell them I came the long way round.
DOCTOR: You can probably still hear me, so just between ourselves, you've got the prophecy wrong. The Hybrid is not half Dalek. Nothing is half Dalek. The Daleks would never allow that. The Hybrid destined to conquer Gallifrey and stand in its ruins
DOCTOR: Is me.
