Spyfall part 2
DOCTOR: Hi, Doctor. Oh! Hi. How are you doing? Good. Just talking to myself to prove I'm still alive. I was wondering. What would you say to the others if they were here? Don't panic.
GRAHAM: Yaz! Hold on!
RYAN: What?
DOCTOR : Of course, I'm usually saying it as much to myself as I am to them.
DOCTOR: Always a good reminder when you're alone, in the unknown, all hope lost.
RYAN: No way.
DOCTOR: Won't work in here. Why not? Could be a clue. A clue to what?
DOCTOR: What was that? Interesting. Useful, maybe. Another! Even better. What are you? Pathways? Signals? Synapses? I could be inside something. Oh, I hope it's not a liver. I hate being inside livers. People always get so offended. What are you doing in my liver again?
ADA : Hello? Hello? Hello?
RYAN: 4C seat pocket.
RYAN: No way. Hey! Hey! I've got a plan.
DOCTOR: Can you hear me? I'm trying to find you, somehow. Ah!
ADA: Please be assured all this will pass. I shall be recovered momentarily.
GRAHAM: Open panel in floor.
RYAN: What does it say next?
GRAHAM: Connect the cable to your phone.
DOCTOR : Welcome aboard.
GRAHAM: You are kidding! How's she doing that?
DOCTOR : I realise you have questions.
GRAHAM: Where are you? We're going to die!
DOCTOR : First of all, you're not going to die. Second of all, don't talk back to the screens. Obviously, I'm a recording and I can't hear you. Third, don't panic. Especially you, Graham.
GRAHAM: I'm not panicking!
DOCTOR : Yes, you were. And I did just say don't talk back to the screens.
GRAHAM: Eh?
DOCTOR : Haven't got long. The bomb in the cockpit knocked out the signals from the computer to the engines. But the computers in this aircraft aren't in the cockpit, they're under the cabin floor. Ryan, the app should have opened.
RYAN: What app? Eh?
RYAN: How was this installed on me phone?
DOCTOR : Use it to communicate with the engines via the aircraft wiring. By the way, you have shut the cockpit door, haven't you? That's vital. Cockpit doors are designed to be incredibly robust.
GRAHAM: I'll do it!
DOCTOR : Now pay attention. Do this fast. I'm worried you might lose me if there's a power surge.
RYAN: Lost her.
YASMIN: Press the cursor up! We've got to stop this plane from going down!
RYAN: Up, up, up!
GRAHAM: Too many ups! Level out! Level out!
DOCTOR: When you say recovered, what do you mean?
ADA: The paralysis will fade.
DOCTOR: You don't look paralysed.
ADA: Not in this realm, but in my earthly aspect.
DOCTOR: Right. What's your name?
ADA: I am Ada.
DOCTOR: And what do you think this realm is, Ada?
ADA: I believe it to be my mind. Though I have not met another here before.
DOCTOR: Then what do you think I am?
ADA: I presume you are a consequence of my thoughts.
DOCTOR: No. I'm the Doctor, and I'm very real. But you've been here before?
ADA: Many times. When the paralysis subsides, I find myself fully back in my body, restored in the physical realm. If you are real, do you have your own solution for egress from here?
DOCTOR: No exit strategy.
DOCTOR: Before I leave, I need to work out what this place is. Oh! Those fragments of light or energy, why are they surrounding you?
ADA: They are always here with me. They place a word in my mind. Kasaavin?
DOCTOR: Ada, step away.
ADA: Do not be afraid. This is my guardian.
DOCTOR: This is their realm. This is where they're from. But how did you bring us here? Unless... You can't be. But you must be. What, gateways? We go through you and arrive in your realm? I say realm. It's not a planet, not really a void. A separate dimension? Are we beyond our... my universe?
ADA: Little of what you are saying makes sense to me, but I am concerned you'll be marooned here. When my guardian has returned...
DOCTOR: They're not your guardians.
ADA: I can offer you my hand. We may leave this place together.
DOCTOR: I don't think that will work.
ADA: How will you know if you do not try? Decide, Doctor.
GRAHAM: You got us level, Ryan. Good lad.
RYAN: I can fly a plane! Can't ride a bike, but I can fly a plane. Hey, look. Barton must have programmed in a flight pattern before he left the cockpit. Looks like this app's keying into it.
YASMIN: How did the Doctor do this?
GRAHAM: No idea. But now we've got to stay on a plane without a cockpit till it decides where to land.
MASTER: You should've seen me. I was great! She did not have a clue.
BARTON: This better work.
MASTER: Final calibrations, and then we'll be ready. All our efforts will come together in a moment of beauty.
MASTER: We'll all have what we want.
BARTON: So you know, I don't appreciate last-minute changes of plan as I'm about to take off.
MASTER: A little chaos is a wonderful thing. Allowed me to swat those flies.
BARTON: I've just been notified. My plane's about to land at its programmed destination.
MASTER: They can't have survived.
BARTON: You told me everything was foolproof. What's gone wrong?
MASTER: Watch your tone, Mister Barton. I'm not your employee.
MASTER: How has she got there?
BARTON: What's happened?
MASTER: Nothing I can't deal with. I'll drop you at your plane. You sort out her friends, I'll deal with the Doctor.
DOCTOR: Ah. I'm getting 19th century? Early, with a touch of mid. Top notes... London. Steam? Why am I getting steam?
MAN: Nations shall cower in fear as my steam gun fires one thousand bearings per minute.
MAN 2: See the mouse survive inside our revolutionary diving bell!
AMERICAN: Touch the magneto. Powerful shocks.
MAN 3: The perfect modern defence, a grenade for the home. Intruders repelled with force.
ADA + DOCTOR: It worked!
BABBAGE: Miss Gordon, are you recovered?
ADA: I am. Thank you. Me too.
DOCTOR: Thanks for asking.
BABBAGE: Madam, this gallery is full of the extraordinary, but your apparition just now was... impossible. How did you do it?
DOCTOR: Er... I am bound never to reveal my secrets. Go about your day, knowing that you may tell people you were privileged to witness the Marvellous Apparating Man! Lady. Apparating Lady! Every time.
DOCTOR: The year, right now, would be what?
BABBAGE: The year, madam, remains 1834.
DOCTOR: Yes.  Marooned in the 19th century. Hold on in there, fam.
BARTON: And there was no one on board?
GROUND STAFF: No, sir. It appears the craft landed itself via automation. Sir, we have had this conversation before. If you're going to be testing these sort of systems, we really need to be kept fully in the loop. I'm going to have to do some tricky smoothing-over with the Civil Aviation Authority.
YASMIN: How'd he get here so quick?
RYAN: I dunno.
GRAHAM: Where is here, anyway?
RYAN: Britain. We're home. Almost. Essex?
GRAHAM: Essex. That is my manor. We are golden. What do we do, though?
YASMIN: Figure out what Barton and O are planning. That's what the Doctor'd do.
GRAHAM: Yeah.
YASMIN: If she was here.
GRAHAM: No, she'll be all right, Yaz. Just got to believe.
YASMIN: You didn't see that place.
RYAN: Hey, still got access to Barton's diary. He's giving a keynote speech in London tomorrow night.
GRAHAM: That is where we have got to get to.
RYAN: Yeah, without him knowing we're still alive.
YASMIN: So let's get moving.
BARTON: I need tracking intel on three people. As soon as you can! These are their names.
ADA: Now we are safe, Doctor, will you reveal a little more concerning how you came to be
DOCTOR: Ow!
ADA: ..in that place and, indeed, who you are?
DOCTOR: I'm a traveller in Space and Time. I was in the middle of dealing with a planet-threatening conspiracy two centuries from now when I was attacked by an old enemy and exiled to the place where I found you. Oh!
ADA: I am not a fool, Doctor.
DOCTOR: And I'm not treating you as one. This conspiracy involves those creatures you think are your guardians. They're in alliance with a renegade from my home planet and a 21st-century tech inventor. 186 years from now, they're assassinating spies, and I am stuck here without my Tardis, and I need to find my way back before...
MASTER: Ladies and gentlemen! See the incredible shrinking device! Want to be smaller, ladies? You can!
MASTER: Who's next? You, sir.
DOCTOR: Go, Ada. You too. Go!
MASTER: Ah, the happy couple.
DOCTOR: I said go.
MASTER: Do not move! Hands on heads. Hands on heads!
DOCTOR: Let them go, and you can have me.
MASTER: I've got you anyway. Did you just move? Did you move?
WOMAN: No!
MASTER: Oh, my mistake. Sorry. Sorry.  When I kill them, Doctor, it gives me a little buzz. Right here, in the hearts. It's like... How would I describe it? It's like... It's like knowing I'm in the right place, doing what I was made for.
DOCTOR: What do you want?
MASTER: Kneel. Kneel, or they all die.  Call me by my name.
DOCTOR: Master.
MASTER: Beg your pardon?
DOCTOR: Master.
MASTER: Can't hear you, love.
DOCTOR: Master.
MASTER: When I arrange for your death, I expect you to stay dead. How did you escape? How did you end up here?
DOCTOR: Ah, you don't know. You're not in control of these creatures. I bet you don't even know what they are.
MASTER: They're called the Kasaavin, and we have interests in common.
DOCTOR: You, Barton, and a race you barely know? That's one uneasy alliance. Trust each other, do you?
MASTER: Oh, completely. By the way, I bring news from home.
ADA: Down, Doctor!
MAN: This is not designed for use by a young lady!
ADA: Nothing is. And yet I find myself more than capable.
ADA: All of you, out!
DOCTOR: Ada, I really do not approve.
MASTER: Run all you like, Doctor. You won't get far without a Tardis.
DOCTOR: Don't have a Tardis.
DOCTOR: Do have an Ada.
RYAN: It's hard not to stand out in this gear.
GRAHAM: Yeah.
YASMIN: We've been on a night out. We're just coming home, that's all. Nothing weird about that.
BARTON: Hello, friends. Or should I say plane thieves? What, did you think I wouldn't be able to track you? We have your numbers, e-mails, GPS. I even know how many more stamps you need for a free coffee. So close, Ryan. Or should I say Logan? Look up.
BARTON: Your passports have been revoked, your bank cards are frozen. We have a record of everyone you know - friends, family, colleagues, everyone you ever followed on social media. Of course, we have cameras everywhere, and now you're wanted for hijacking. Go on, go off-grid. See how long you last.
RYAN: Hey, smash your phones now.
BARTON: Aw! Yasmin Khan is phoning her mum.
GRAHAM: He don't half go on.
NAJIA : Yaz?
YASMIN: Hello. It's me. Listen, don't listen to anything you hear.
YASMIN: Ryan!
RYAN: You're not hearing. We have to go dark.
GRAHAM: Run.
BABBAGE: Surely we must alert the authorities?
DOCTOR: The authorities won't be any help.
ADA: Besides, what would we tell them, Mister Babbage?
BABBAGE: I have no concept, Ada. I cannot explain any of what I have seen today.
DOCTOR: Babbage? Charles Babbage?
BABBAGE: Yes.
DOCTOR: So this must be...
BABBAGE: My Difference Engine.
DOCTOR: Your Difference Engine!
BABBAGE: Oh. You...you know of it?
DOCTOR: Er, just in passing.
BABBAGE: As yet unfinished. It will count and perform quadratic equations.
DOCTOR: If you're Charles Babbage, then you're not just any old Ada. You're Ada Lovelace, daughter of Lord Byron and Annabella Milbanke, one of the great minds.
ADA: I am Ada Gordon, madam.
DOCTOR: 1834. Of course you are. Well, maybe one day, who knows, you might meet a nice Earl. This changes everything! This isn't an accident. Ada Lovelace in Babbage's house? You're clues. You're important.
BABBAGE: I'm delighted to hear it, madam.
DOCTOR: Yes, it's not good news. What's that?
BABBAGE: This is the Silver Lady. A revolutionary piece of engineering. But, like all great ladies, she is as much for decoration as for purpose.
DOCTOR: How did you come by this?
BABBAGE: It was a gift, delivered by a young man who said it was a token of appreciation from his master.
DOCTOR: Was it. What does it do?
BABBAGE: It... moves. And on occasion, projects.
DOCTOR: On occasion projects something like this?
ADA: M... Mister Babbage, you have seen the same form.
BABBAGE: Madam, those are my private notes.
DOCTOR: The Master and the Kasaavin. What are they doing?
BABBAGE: Er, do you understand her, Miss Gordon?
ADA: Not in the least, Mister Babbage.
DOCTOR: Ada, when was your first paralysis?
ADA: I was 13 years old. That is when I was first transported to the place where we met, and I first saw an apparition.
DOCTOR: And over the years, the paralysis recurs with the same effect?
ADA: Yes. No doctor has ever been able to diagnose the cause.
DOCTOR: Well, this Doctor may be able to. An apparition, from this machine.
BABBAGE: Correct.
DOCTOR: So, they take you, Ada, multiple times from here and they study you in their dimension, which means they can't be in this dimension for long. But maybe they gain an ally, a mastermind who builds them a machine which stabilises them in this world long enough for them to send spies and to spread their work and start a plan. 'Cause I've seen the map in his hut. Multiple Earths. Except not. Not multiple Earths. Multiple time periods. These creatures aren't just alien spies on Earth, they're spies through Time, through history, starting with you.
ADA: What are you doing?
DOCTOR: The man from the Adelaide Gallery will be coming for me. I need to get back to where I came from, find my friends and figure this out.
DOCTOR: And I've only got one way out of here. The same way I came in. If I use my sonic on the Silver Lady, I might be able to force this creature to throw me back to the 21st century. I hope.
ADA: If this is your plan, it is fraught with risk.
DOCTOR: Where there's risk, there's hope. Deep breath.
DOCTOR: Ada, no!
GRAHAM: No one living here yet. No CCTV, no neighbourhood watch. The one on the end. Go on.
YASMIN: What if the Doctor doesn't come back? What if we never see her again?
RYAN: We keep going. Stop Barton. Get rid of those creatures, whatever they are.
GRAHAM: Ryan's right. We carry on doing what the Doc would want us to do.
RYAN: I'm sorry, did you just say, Ryan's right?
GRAHAM: Yes, I did. Enjoy the moment, son. You won't hear it often.
RYAN: And that O guy. If the Doctor knew him, how come she couldn't recognise him?
GRAHAM: In the outback, he said that he knew the Doc when she was a man. And that first night we met, she told me and Grace that she'd been through er... something called... regeneration. Like her whole body had changed.
YASMIN: We've spent all this time with her and we don't even know where she's from.
GRAHAM: Yeah, not for want of asking, though. Eh? I mean. And we will ask, when we see her again, which we will, cos she is safe somewhere, of course. Right?
YASMIN: Right.
RYAN: Right.
YASMIN: You know what she'd ask now? What do we have at our disposal?
GRAHAM: Well, I've er... got to admit I did keep a couple of those spy gadgety things.
RYAN: Me too. Hey, are you wearing the laser shoes?
GRAHAM: I might be.
YASMIN: Why didn't you use them on the plane?
GRAHAM: What, in a confined space like that? You're having a laugh, in't ya? That wouldn't have been very smart, would it? And besides which, I forgot to read the instructions.
YASMIN: Graham!
GRAHAM: Well, we was in a rush. What could I do?
RYAN: Rocket cufflinks. To be fair, I didn't read the instructions on those either.
GRAHAM: You doughnut.
RYAN + YASMIN: Doughnut?
GRAHAM: Yeah, the pair of you. Right couple of doughnuts. But there's no one I'd rather be on the run with.
DOCTOR: What? No.
DOCTOR: Ada. Are you okay?
ADA: Are we safe?
NOOR: Don't move. I said don't move!
DOCTOR: We're not hostile. We're here by accident.
NOOR: What are you doing out here? What are you wearing?
ADA: What are those noises?
DOCTOR: Where are we? And when?
NOOR: Don't you know?
DOCTOR: Just landed. Concussion. Humour me.
NOOR: Paris, 1943.
DOCTOR: Oh, no.
NOOR: It's a patrol. Inside, quick. We're not safe out here.
MASTER: I know you're here! I will find you!
MASTER: Especially you, Doctor. Coming, ready or not.
YASMIN: Did you just say something?
GRAHAM: Ryan, come on!
GRAHAM: :Out this way. Come on, up here!
YASMIN: Quickly!
GRAHAM: Come on, quick! Come on, Yaz!
RYAN: The shoe, Graham!
GRAHAM:What?
RYAN: Just stomp your foot, or something!
YASMIN: Again!
YASMIN: You've got to aim better.
GRAHAM: What do you mean? I didn't read the instructions!
YASMIN: Dance, Graham, dance!
BARTON: Beautiful, isn't it? Dates back to the 19th century. What, not going to say anything? This cannot still be about me moving to the States. I text. I e-mail. I tried to friend you on Facebook, and you refused. And trust me, I never use Facebook unless forced.
MOTHER: Why am I here?
BARTON: I'm in the country. I thought it would be nice for us to see each other. Thanks for coming. MOTHER: I didn't have a choice.
BARTON: I keep wondering, does she know? Does she realise that I'm one of the most successful men on the planet? I've changed the world. What do I have to do to get you to say well done?
MOTHER: Well done. Are we finished?
BARTON: No. I wanted to see you on the last day.
MOTHER: On the what?
BARTON: So that you could be the first.
NOOR: Yes?
NOOR: You're new.
DOCTOR: You are a life-saver. Got some interesting stuff under the floorboards here. Wireless radio equipment. As issued by the British Special Operations Executive. Very distinct, very large and very difficult to hide. You're not Parisian. You're a British spy. I know that face. Code name Madeleine. Real name Noor Inayat Khan. First female wireless operator to be dropped behind enemy lines. Very nice to meet you. I'm not where I wanted to be, but I can work with this. Ada, wait till you hear about Noor. She's as impressive as you. You grabbing my hand must have thrown us off course, spat us out here.
ADA: I should like to come out from the floor now.
NOOR: Oh.
NOOR: Who are you? How do you know so much about me? And why are you both wearing such strange clothes?
ADA: That soldier's voice. He was in the Adelaide Gallery. How can he be here?
DOCTOR: He's in league with the Kasaavin, those creatures of light. I'd hoped to get back to their home dimension, where we met, and then to the 21st century. But we ended up here instead, which is, you know, 19th century to 20th, it's progress. But the Master tracked me down, and now he wants me dead, whereas I am a big fan of being alive. Ada? Are you all right?
ADA: I have always wanted to return to Paris.
NOOR: It's not at its best. Nightly bombing raids. Millions dead. They promised us war at this scale would never happen again, and yet here we are.
ADA: This isn't the first time?
NOOR: Who are you people?
DOCTOR: We're your allies, I promise.
ADA: This is the future. A world on fire.
DOCTOR: These are the dark times. But they don't sustain. Darkness never sustains, even though sometimes it feels like it might. I need to turn this to our advantage and get the Master off my trail. He's masquerading as a German soldier. That's a low, even for him. Code name Madeleine, what equipment do you have here?
NOOR: Only my radio equipment. No gun. No cyanide pill. I'm a pacifist.
DOCTOR: Snap! Strong position to take during wartime. Two pacifists and a 19th-century descendant of Byron against the Nazis in Paris and an alien invasion across multiple dimensions. That's a big to-do list.  I have an idea. And you two brilliant people are a big part of it.
SONYA : Hello?
YASMIN: Sonya, it's me.
SONYA: Where are you, idiot? What sort of trouble have you gone and got yourself into?
YASMIN: Shut up. I'm fine, but I can't talk long. Tell Mum and Dad not to worry.
SONYA: Oh, yeah, cos that's going to work. Your name's all over the news. Have you gone rogue?
YASMIN: Shut up and listen. I'm with Graham and Ryan. We're fine. There's just been a bit of a misunderstanding. If anyone comes to the door and wants you to go with them, just refuse. Stay in the flat and don't let anyone in. Keep yourself safe. I'm worried they'll come for you. I've got to go.
MAN: Down! Get down! Face down on the floor!
RYAN: All right.
GRAHAM: Sorry, gents, it's you who's getting down on the floor.
GRAHAM:This is the most advanced laser shoe known to man. Ain't worth the resistance, lads. Guns down and on the floor. Don't make me do the old soft-shoe shuffle.
RYAN: Your boss thinks we're stupid. She made the call knowing that you'd come for us. And now we're taking your phones and we're going to raid your GPS. How's that for smart? YASMIN: Ryan, don't tell them the plan.
RYAN: Oh, yeah. Sorry, I got a bit carried away. Come on, let's go.
NOOR: That's not a code.
DOCTOR: Not to you. If this works, I'm going to need you to find something for me. This is a very personal code. The rhythm of two hearts.
DOCTOR: That got his attention. He's not so far. I can sense him.  Contact.
MASTER : Contact. Old-school.
DOCTOR: You're not the only one who can do classic.
MASTER: So, how are you holding up without a Tardis, or your friends or a hope? A fugitive in time?
DOCTOR: All right. You've come all this way. You've got me cornered. I'll meet you. No troops. No soldiers. Just us.
MASTER: Where?
DOCTOR: Where do you think?
DOCTOR: It's cold up here! It's worse than Jodrell Bank.
MASTER: Did I ever apologise for that?
DOCTOR: No.
MASTER: Good.
DOCTOR: How's the shoulder?
MASTER: Painful.
DOCTOR: I don't like what you're wearing. Or the company you keep. How have you managed that? You're not exactly their Aryan archetype.
MASTER: Tiny Teutonic psychic perception filter. Learned it at school. Lets people see what they want to see.
DOCTOR: I'm assuming it was you who hijacked the MI6 car.
MASTER: That was fun.
DOCTOR: And assassinated C.
MASTER: Mandraffian laser rifle. One shot. I've still got an eye for it.
DOCTOR: Why were the Kasaavin assassinating spies?
MASTER: Earth's intelligence services started to realise their presence.
DOCTOR: So, what, you brought the Kasaavin to Earth?
MASTER: They were already here. I just persuaded them we had interests in common. The Kasaavin are embedded across the whole of this universe, spies from another dimension. As I said to Mister Barton, think of them as Russia, but bigger. Sleeper agents everywhere, waiting to be activated, amassing information in case they need to attack. And, I mean, you know me. I can't help myself. I have to stick my oar in.
DOCTOR: What have you done?
MASTER: Suggested a better plan.
YASMIN: Over here!
GRAHAM: Is she alive?
YASMIN: No. What's she even doing here?
RYAN: Where's Barton? This is where his guys were supposed to lead us, and he's not here.
BARTON : Well done overpowering my people. But did you really think they wouldn't tell me? I have a significant announcement to make, and you, my friends, are two steps behind. As usual.
YASMIN: We know all about you. We know some of your DNA isn't human.
GRAHAM: So what are you, part alien?
BARTON: You really don't understand who I am. I build things. I test them. So I let them test a tiny part of me. And now it's time for the global roll-out. I'm proof of concept.
RYAN: What concept? What did they try?
BARTON: Look after my mum.
GRAHAM: He killed his own mum.
YASMIN: And left her here.
RYAN: That machine was in Barton's office.
ADA: What are you doing?
NOOR: Communicating a message back to London, just as the Doctor asked. Why are we trusting her?
ADA: I have seen extraordinary things with her. She's wise and unafraid, and I believe in her. What is this contraption she's left us with?
NOOR: I don't know. I've never seen anything like that before. So, are you ready to brave the night?
ADA: How does that fit here?
NOOR: She did say, look for something anomalous. Use the device.
DOCTOR: Oh! Must change the ringtone. Sent it to voicemail. Probably just asking if I've had an accident in the last five years.
DOCTOR: They hate it when you give them a list, though, don't they?
MASTER: Why didn't you die when the Kasaavin attacked you?
DOCTOR: Me and Yaz, both time travellers, fizzing with artron energy, and my DNA not matching the rest of humanity, we confused them. And I don't think they're as stable in this dimension as they'd like to be. What deal have you made with them?
MASTER: I showed them and Barton what was possible. They helped me lay a trap for you, and I raised their ambitions. Of course, ultimately the Kasaavin are just the mechanism. They... they don't have my vision, you know?
DOCTOR: And what vision is that?
MASTER: Maximum carnage.
DOCTOR: I don't understand.
MASTER: No, no, I know you don't. But you will. And of course, the best thing is everyone loses except me. Barton and those creatures do the dirty work, and once they're done, I get rid of them, having destroyed your precious human race in the process. Win-win-win.
DOCTOR: When does all this stop for you? The games, the betrayals, the killing?
MASTER: Why would it stop? I mean, how else would I get your attention? When did you last go home?
DOCTOR: What do you mean?
MASTER: I took a trip home, to Gallifrey, hiding in its little bubble universe. Not sure how to describe what I found. Pulverised? Burned? Nuked? All of the above. Someone destroyed it. Our home, razed to the ground. Everyone killed. Everything burned.
DOCTOR: You're lying.
MASTER: You should really take a look. Oh, wait, you won't be able to. I just thought I'd let you know before I...
DOCTOR: Can you hear voices?
MASTER: Why are there troops coming up the stairs?
DOCTOR: Oh. That's me, and one of Blighty's bravest radio operators. Very good at sending messages, particularly fake ones designed to be intercepted. Now, finish what you were saying!
MASTER: What have you done?
DOCTOR: Sent a message to the Brits telling them how valuable you've been as a double agent, sending Nazi information to the British.
DOCTOR: Facial perception filter? Very easy to jam. Now they'll see the real you. Good luck.
MASTER: I believe there's been a misunderstanding. Can we talk about this? You've always struck me as such reasonable people.
NOOR: Over here.
ADA: Is this what you meant?
NOOR: That wasn't here last week.
DOCTOR: I bet it wasn't. So arrogant. Didn't even change the appearance.
DOCTOR: Okay, you two, my best secret agents, time to go lock-picking.
ADA: Why is this house so important?
DOCTOR: This is not a house. It's a machine that travels in Space and Time. This is my way back to finding my friends and saving humanity. I know you think I'm mad, but give me five minutes and you'll think I'm the sanest person alive. Okay, that was an overstatement. I said the Master's arrogant, but arrogance can trip you up.
DOCTOR: I know what this is. A temporal map, showing every significant person in the development of computers through history, starting with you, Ada. This is the plan. See?
BOTH: No.
ADA: Wh... what is a computer?
DOCTOR: Oh, forget you heard that word, otherwise I've just disrupted the whole of history. Again. Okay. Ah, my brain's fizzing. Good. The Kasaavin posted an agent on every person on that map, because that's what spies do, what Barton does. They gather all the data. Where does the DNA fit in? Kasaavin, technology, DNA. How are they all connected? Oh! Human DNA. That's what they were testing.
NOOR: How much of that did you understand?
BARTON: Thank you. Today, I'm here to say thank you to those of you all round the world who've made our achievements possible. To everyone who, over the years, has given us everything. We gave you pieces of plastic and circuitry and games, and you handed us - me, my company - total access to your lives. What you buy, where you go, who you text, what you text. Every thought and photo and post. Every credit card number, every birthday, every memorable place and all your mothers' maiden names. So thank you for carrying our cameras in your pockets, and putting our microphones in your bedrooms. For signing up your kids, handing them our devices. We told you, of course your lives are private, of course your data's safe. And you believed us. You kept clicking Agree. And now, we can do anything. I can send a text to every device on this planet.
BARTON: Go ahead. Read it.
YASMIN: Humanity is over. You have three minutes to prepare. Prepare for what?
BARTON: Funny, right? Except, not a joke. We are way past peak human. We've created systems that are smarter and can run more efficiently than we do. So what's our purpose? We must be useful for something. Well, the data tells us we are. We can repurpose. Well, you all can. You know the most efficient type of hard drives on Planet Earth? Humans. Human DNA can store so much data. We're the perfect storage system, which means there are over seven billion potentially incredibly useful hard drives on this planet. All that's needed is to reformat the whole of humanity. Luckily, there's an app for that.
RYAN: Anyone feel like this is something we should be worried about?
SONYA: Mum? I can't move!
BARTON: A handful of us will remain sentient in order to supervise, maybe even rebuild. But for the rest of you? Welcome to the end of your lives.
YASMIN: Use your shoe on the machine.
GRAHAM: It doesn't make any difference.
YASMIN: Cufflinks!
MASTER: Move away. Now! I've just had the most infuriating seventy seven years of my life. Have you any idea how hard it is to live through the 20th century? The places I've escaped from. Still... just in time to watch you all pay.
RYAN: What's the machine?
MASTER: Conversion and transmission. We're transmitting Kasaavin energy around the world all at once into every device, hitting every human being and erasing all their DNA simultaneously.
RYAN: Yaz!
YASMIN: I can't let go of it.
MASTER: First her. Then you. Then you.
MASTER: Don't do this.
BARTON: Extraction team in. Immediately!
DOCTOR: Sorry. I think that might have been me. And I'll admit, it was close.
NAJIA: What was that?
HAKIM: What do I keep telling you? Conspiracy.
MASTER: No.
DOCTOR: Two can play at embedding things in history. I knew the Silver Lady was important, and that you built it for a reason, but I couldn't work out why. So I traced its movements through history. And when I saw that Barton now owned it, we stopped by his office. Middle of last year, using your Tardis, I built a fail-safe into that machine. Planted a virus. If it ever detected the massing of a Kasaavin army within its systems - total shutdown.
MASTER: You're going to have to explain yourself to them, Doctor.
DOCTOR: Am I? Listen, you lot, I've rigged the Silver Lady to exile you back to your own dimension. This planet's off-limits. Oh, and you know that deal he made with you?
MASTER : Barton and these creatures do the dirty work, and once they're done, I get rid of them, having destroyed your precious human race in the process. Win-win-win.
MASTER: Oh.
DOCTOR: That's your name. Don't wear it out. That's the trouble with modern technology. You never know when you're being spied upon.
MASTER: Don't... don't listen to her.
MASTER: No. Doctor. Doctor!!!
DOCTOR: What?
YASMIN: You have a lot of explaining to do.
DOCTOR: Like what?
GRAHAM: Like who are they? And are we being replaced?
DOCTOR: No. This is Ada, this is Noor. 1834, 1943. They helped me out. I'm dropping them back in a sec.
RYAN: How did you manage to save our lives on the plane?
DOCTOR: The plane. Oh, I forgot. Come on!
DOCTOR: You have shut the cockpit doors, haven't you? That's vital. Cockpit doors are designed to be incredibly robust.
DOCTOR: I love a laminator.
DOCTOR : Stick these in Barton's plane as it's being built then reclaim my own Tardis.
DOCTOR: This is where I leave you.
NOOR: Answer me one question. The fascists, do they win?
DOCTOR: Never. Not while there's people like you.
DOCTOR: It's all right. I'm just removing me from your mind.
DOCTOR: Bonne chance.
ADA: Doctor, does this have to be the end? All the things I've learned, the advances, the machines. I would dearly love to see more.
DOCTOR: I'm afraid I need to do something about that.
ADA: What do you mean?
DOCTOR: I'm ever so sorry, Ada.
ADA: Doctor, what are you doing?
DOCTOR: Wiping the things you shouldn't have knowledge of. Including me.
ADA: But I want that knowledge. Don't take it away. Please don't take it a...
DOCTOR: Oh Ada, you don't need a preview. You'll figure it out before anyone. The first to see the potential in things like that, to work out what could be. What they can really do. Computers start with you. Sweet dreams, Ada Lovelace.
MASTER : When did you last go home? You should really take a look.
MASTER : Geo-activated. If you're seeing this, you've been to Gallifrey. When I said someone did that, obviously I meant I did. I had to make them pay for what I discovered. They lied to us, the founding fathers of Gallifrey. Everything we were told was a lie. We are not who we think, you or I. The whole existence of our species built on the lie of the Timeless Child.
VOICES: The Timeless Child. The Timeless Child.
MASTER : Do you see it? It's buried deep in all our memories. In our identity. I'd tell you more, but... but why would I make it easy for you? It wasn't for me.
YASMIN: You okay? You're really quiet.
RYAN: Yeah. You have been for days now.
GRAHAM: They're right. Five planets, you've barely said a word.
DOCTOR: I'm fine.
GRAHAM: Why don't you ever share anything with us?
DOCTOR: I share stuff.
GRAHAM: Not about yourself, though.
RYAN: Yeah, you know everything about us.
YASMIN: And we know nothing about you.
GRAHAM: Mmm.
DOCTOR: Fine. What do you want to know?
GRAHAM: Who are you, Doc? I mean, really.
DOCTOR: I was born on a planet called Gallifrey in the constellation of Kasterborous. I'm a Time Lord. I can regenerate my body. I stole this Tardis and I ran away. I've been travelling ever since. The Master was one of my oldest friends. We went very different ways. Questions?
GRAHAM: Loads.
YASMIN: Can we visit your home?
DOCTOR: Another time.
